DATA FOR THE HOMEWORKS

CONTEXT. To the group homework #1 of this course, you need to work on network
data from one of the classrooms in the "RECENS high-school study". This was a large
longitudinal network data collection that took place in Hungary between 2010 and
2013. In course of the study, social network surveys were administered in 43
high-school classes a total of 4 times. The first suvey was done two months after
the start of the first grade (when most students were 14-15 years old), the second
half a year later. There were two additional questionnaires distributed one and
two years after wave 2, but we do not use these later obsevations in this course. 

AVAILABLE DATA. Some social network and individual variables are available for you
to work with in the course. We selected one classroom from the original
study.

The data files you need to use are the following (they can be found in the 
“Data for homeworks” folder):

2400_affective_w1.csv - adjacency matrix for the affective relations network of wave 1
2400_trust_w1.csv - adjacency matrix for the personal trust network of wave 1
2400_sex.csv - data table containing a variable for the sex of students
2400_drink.csv - data table containing one variable for drinking habits in wave 1 and
		 another variable for drinking habits in wave 2

2400 is a unique 4-digit classroom identifier.

CODING. The affective relations networks come from a scale item in the survey:
students were asked to evaluate their relationship with each of their fellow
classmates on a scale ranging from -2 to +2. The labels can be interpreted as
-2: enemy, -1: dislike, 0: neutral, +1: like, +2: friend. The "trust network"
comes from an item that asked students to nominate each of their classmates
with whom they would share an important secret (1: yes, 0: no). The sex of the
students is coded as 1: male, 2: female. Drinking habits were measured on a 4-point
scale, where 1 stands for "I have never tried alcohol", 2 for "I have tried it, but
I never drink", 3 for "I drink occasionally", and 4 for "I drink at least once a
week". For the sake of simplicity, you can view this variable as a crude continuous
measure of the frequency of alcohol consumption whenever you use it an analysis.
